---
source_file: output/HK Standard/CIC BIM Standard/CIC BIM Standards for Preparation
  of Statutory Plan Submissions Dec2020/Appendix 3 CIC BIM User Guide for Preparation
  of Statutory Plan Submissions Revit Dec2020.pdf
doc_id: cic_stat_revit_2020
section_id: cic_stat_revit_2020_4_5_ground_investigation
title: 4.5 Ground Investigation
page_start: 69
page_end: 79
authority: CIC Statutory Revit Guide 2020 §4.5
authority_type: software_guide
normative_weight: operational
discipline: statutory_submission
lifecycle_stage: statutory
publication_year: 2020
software: Revit
priority: normal
language: en
source_url: hk_cde://cic_stat_revit_2020/cic_stat_revit_2020_4_5_ground_investigation
---

# 4.5 Ground Investigation

63  
 
 
Add Symbol in plan view (Refer to section 7.1.4 Add annotation symbol)  
 
Category Family Type 
Generic 
Annotation 
ANN-GNN-CIC-Cut_Slope 5mm 
10mm 
 
Add spot elevation for final excavation in plan view  
In ribbon ➜ click “Annotate” ➜ “Spot Elevation” ➜ select “SPE -AEC-
Final_Excavation_Level_Prefix” in properties panel ➜ place to the desired 
location. 
 
4.5 Ground Investigation 
The following objects will be modelled: 
  Bored Hole 
  Standard penetration tests  result 
  Profile for inferred boundaries of different geological  strata 
  Instrument checkpoints 
 
4.5.1 Insert Bored Hole using  Dynamo 
Prepare the bored hole coordination table in excel format for dynamo input. 
Basic information shall be input by the user: 
  Bored hole number  
  Soil / rock layer 
  Easting coordination

64  
  Northing coordination 
  Layer top-level (mPD) 
  Layer bottom level (mPD) 
 
Click “Manage” in ribbon ➜ click “Dynamo” 
(Remark: User may download Dynamo from the below website: 
https://dynamobim.org/download/) 
 
Open dynamo user interface in window ➜ Open dynamo file 
“bh_gen(v1.3.4).dyn”

65  
 
Click to edit “File Path” ➜ Choose the corresponding excel file of the bored hole 
coordination table. 
 
Edit “Family Type” in Dynamo window ➜ change the type to “STE -OTR-CIC-
Borehole: STE-OTR-CIC- Borehole” 
 
Click “Run” in Dynamo window 
 
Close the Dynamo window ➜ present bored hole elements in Revit screen

66  
 
 
4.5.2 Insert Standard penetration test result using Dynamo 
Prepare a standard penetration test point table in  excel format for dynamo input.  
Basic information shall  be input by user: 
  Count 
  Easting 
  Northing 
  Position Z 
  Value 
 
Click “Manage” in ribbon ➜ click “Dynamo” again for standard penetration test 
(SPT) input 
 
Open dynamo user interface in window ➜ Open dynamo  file 
“spt_gen(v1.3.4).dyn” Click to edit “File Path” ➜ Choose the corresponding 
excel file 
Edit “Family Type” in  Dynamo  window  ➜  change  the  family  type  to “STE -
OTR-CIC-Borehole_SPT: STE-OTR-CIC-Borehole_SPT”

67  
Click “Run” in Dynamo window 
 
Close the Dynamo window ➜ present SPT elements in Revit screen Select a 
bored hole ➜ edit the rockhead level manually. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Important Note: 
In the properties panel, “soil layer”, “Diameter”, “Base Elevation”, “Easting”, 
“Northing”, “Rock Head Level”, “Mark” are automatically generated by Dynamo 
input from previous steps. 
Add Tag in plan view/ section view  (Refer to section 7.1.2 Add Tags –  Tag by 
Category) 
 
Category Family Type 
Site ANN-STG-CIC-Boredhole Elevation – Layer 
Elevation – Mark 
Elevation - N Value 
Plan – Down 
Plan - Up

68

69  
4.5.3 Create rockhead profile 
In Ribbon, click “Insert” ➜ click “Import CAD” ➜ select the rockhead CAD file 
 
Make sure to unclick “Current view only” ➜ place the CAD file to the desired 
location. 
 
 
In Ribbon, click “Massing & Site” ➜ click “Toposurface” 
 
Click “Select Import Instance” ➜ select the imported rockhead CAD file 
 
Select the layer(s) that contains the elevation points of the profile ➜ click “OK” to 
generate the toposurface.

70  
 
In properties panel, fill in “BH Rock” for Name. 
 
 
 
 
4.5.4 Create profile for inferred boundaries of different geological  strata 
Select “BOREDHOLE” plan under Floor Plans in Project Browser. In Ribbon, 
click “Insert” ➜ click 
Open a site plan in Revit ➜ click “Massing & Site” in ribbon ➜ click 
“Toposurface” under Model Site.

71  
Place point and set the elevation on the Toposurface according to the inferred 
boundaries for each bored hole ➜ click “Tick”.

72  
In the properties panel, fill in the name of each boundary (ie. BH MD, BH ALLU, 
BH CDG, etc.) in “Name” 
 
4.5.5 Create Instrument check point 
The followings instrument check point object will be modelled:  
  Building settlement marker 
  Building Tilting check point with vertical  displacement 
  Ground settlement check  point 
  Utility settlement monitoring point on ground 
  Vibration check point 
  Observation Well 
  Pump Well 
  Recharge Well 
  Standpipe with piezometer 
Select “MONITORING CHECK POINT” plan  under Floor  Plans in Project  
Browser.  In Ribbon, click “Massing & Site” ➜ click “Site Component” 
 
Select the specific types of instrument marker in the properties panel.

73  
 
 
Place the object to the designed location. 
 
In the properties panel, fill in “Name” for identification of element. Select 
Up/Down/Left/Right for the display location of the name.
